I can't help feeling...
satisfied, already.
Velzar: Why, of course
you do, Dark King.
It's only natural.
[perplexed breaths]
Velzar: You've
been toiling with
this massive undertaking
for thousands of years...
And now your efforts have
finally come to fruition.
It pains me to admit it, but
you have me rather impressed.
Ah, what an
unexpected surprise.
The very voice of the one
who once shared the
Underworld with me.
True Vearn: Velzar,
King of the Abyss.
Popp: Velzar? Isn't that
the dragon Baran fought?
True Vearn: Why,
how kind of you, Velzar.
Considering our history,
I wasn't expecting
any congratulations.
The rumors must be true...
You really can't
leave our realm, can you?
Otherwise, you'd be
here in person.
Velzar: [ferocious snarl]
Velzar: All because
of that battle...
The Dragon Knight may have
destroyed my corporeal form...
But with my immortal soul,
I would have eventually
grown a new one
and returned to
seek vengeance.
Only... sensing my defeat,
the Spirits of
Celesta swept in
and immediately
bound my essence...
Leaving me imprisoned in
this miserable stone husk.
Velzar: While these beings
possessed no combat skills,
it seemed they did
not need them.
Velzar: Curse them!
Curse them all...
The Dragon Knight!
Those meddlesome
Spirits of the Heavens!
To be bested by these
"Legacies of the Gods"-
it burns me with untold fury.
You got hasty.
I'm sure you're aware,
because of that...
I was able to make my
remaining moves in silence.
Velzar: Haste had
nothing to do with it.
I knew you intended to
destroy the Surface World.
Yet I wanted to
rule it as my own.
Velzar: Had I not
been trapped,
I would have
stopped you long ago.
Trapped as you may be,
your ambition remains.
That's why you sent Killvearn
to carry out your bidding.
Unfortunately,
the Reaper has-
how shall I put this?
Suffered a taste
of his own medicine.
Velzar: What?!
He's gone. Slain by the
Heroes of the Surface World.
I'm sure you meant for him
to take me down eventually,
perhaps at this exact moment.
But either way,
he's failed you.
[chuckling]
It appears... as though
I've won our little wager.
Popp [thought]: A... A wager?
This was a bet?!
True Vearn: That's right.
We were enemies at first,
warring for total dominion
of the Underworld.
In time, we saw that we
shared a mutual hatred.
We both despised the gods!
They tossed us aside...
and deprived us of
the peace they so freely
gave the humans
on the Surface.
Their injustice
was unforgivable.
The only choice...
was for one for us
to become our own god
and make them pay!
Once we realized we
had a common enemy,
we ended our feud.
After centuries of combat,
we needed to move
past our quarrel.
I suggested we resolve the
matter with a bet of sorts.
We would each go ahead
with our own schemes.
Whoever succeeded
first would win;
and whoever lost would
serve the winner.
[chuckling]
But of course -
as you can see from
Velzar's true intentions
when he sent me the Reaper -
in spite of our truce, clearly,
neither of us ever
fully trusted the other.
True Vearn: Even with
his master defeated,
Kill remained loyal,
watching and waiting
for the perfect
opportunity to attack.
And even in such
a hopeless state...
Velzar never
gave up on his desire
to rule the Surface World.
Velzar: If the Reaper is really
gone, then so are my options.
I have no other choice
than to admit defeat.
You've defeated the current
Dragon Knight, your old rival,
and now you seek to acquire
even the sun as your own.
You are the most terrifying
being of all, Dark King.
I appreciate that.
But never fear. While
this world will vanish...
it doesn't have to be
so final, does it?
You see, without
the Surface World,
the balance of the Trio
of Worlds will topple.
If you like, after it does,
I could always
invade Celesta next,
and break that pesky seal the
spirits have used to bind you.
True Vearn: Oh,
leaving so soon?
Have I hurt your pride?
[laughing]
Popp [thought]: This
whole conversation is
seriously above
our pay grade.
Immortal souls...
Becoming gods...
Storming the
Heavens themselves...
They're on a totally
different playing field.
We're like flies next
to these monsters...
Velzar: So this is Dai,
son of the one who
vanquished me?
Look at him.
He's like a corpse.
There's no life in his eyes.
Considering his lineage,
and that he met his
defeat at your hand,
I thought he'd
be less pathetic.
He isn't even half
the man his father was.
Dai [thought]: D-Dad?
You know, Velzar,
you're quite the sore loser.
Take my word for it,
I can assure you...
Dai is superior to
Baran in every way.
The only quality he
lacks is bloodlust.
It seemed there
were no bounds
to his father's bloodlust.
No opponent he faced
could ever match it.
[laughing]
Ah, yes, there it is.
At long last,
it's finally hit me...
It feels real now!
True Vearn:
My ancient nemesis...
The obstacle created by the
gods, along with his friends...
With all of you
groveling before me,
nothing stands in my way.
There's no question
about it; this is victory!
Popp: It's... It's over...
Merle: No, it isn't. Get up!
[surprised gasp]
Popp: That voice...
It can't be...
Popp: Merle?!
Merle: You can't quit.
Whatever's happening there,
you mustn't lose hope, Popp.
Please!
But Merle, if you're alive...
The others, are they...
Are Queen Flora and
the others okay?
Merle: Yes.
Everybody's safe.
I woke up just in time.
We escaped right
before the explosion.
Flora [thought]:
That was truly a shock.
She bolted straight
up all of a sudden,
screaming we were in grave
danger and needed to take cover.
I don't get it.
How did you know that
the Pillar was coming down?
And now, how can I
even hear your voice?
Did you get new
powers or something?
I guess so.
Even though I was
unconscious...
Suddenly, I just knew.
And I could feel
everything you were feeling.
When your fear reached
its peak, I woke up.
I wasn't sure what was coming,
but I knew we
didn't have long.
Popp [thought]: When Dai
was holding Vearn off
with all those Zapple spells,
they got out of the way.
But then where did
this crazy new ability
of yours come from?
It must be...
Well, it must be because
I never stopped
thinking about you.
Flora [thought]:
If you ask me,
it seems like Popp
wasn't the only one
who was reborn in that moment.
Merle awakened her untapped
potential along with him.
The heart is a miracle.
We know that you're all in
a dire situation up there,
and I can feel how
there doesn't seem to be
a way of turning it around...
But, Popp...
It's not over.
Don't give up!
Keep fighting.
Don't lose hope until
the very, very end!
But, Merle...
True Vearn: Oh? It would
seem they made it to safety.
But at this point they've
only delayed the inevitable.
[evil chuckling]
Popp: I wish you
were right, Merle.
But if you could see us now,
then no matter what
you say, you would know...
It is over.
It's... really all over.
This is it...
The world we live in,
is about to...
It's about to
vanish forever!
I'm so sorry.
We tried, but w-we just
weren't strong enough.
There isn't...
there really isn't...
There's nothing left
we can try here.
We're done...
You're wrong!
There is still a way!
H-How is there still a way?
Lon Beruk and Nova...
They're on their way to try
and disable the Pillar.
It's not over.
Merle: Please, Popp.
You can't give up now.
Lon thinks he can
shut down the Pillar?
Lon Beruk: That Crack
spell completely froze it.
Looks like my
theory was right.
Lon Beruk: While it
may run on Magic Power,
a Black Core still
basically functions like
a mechanical bomb.
The trick is to cut its fuse
without setting it off.
The core won't explode
if it can't be activated.
Most spells run
the risk of igniting
such a volatile substance...
but a Crack spell only
freezes the surface,
which is all we need.
Yeah. That's it!
If we can freeze all
of the Black Cores
before their timers go off...
True Vearn: [laughing]
It's Vearn.
True Vearn: What
a shame, Lon Beruk.
To see you help these humans
in their futile resistance...
You soil your reputation
as a craftsman.
And how exactly...
do you know it's futile?
True Vearn: Don't you see?
It's very simple.
The pillars were activated
long before you arrived.
It occurred simultaneously.
If so much as one
of them detonates,
a shockwave of
extreme heat will
sweep across
the Surface World.
The remaining Cores will go
off like dominoes in its wake.
In other words, unless
you freeze all six of them
before the timers
finish their countdown...
you can't stop
their detonation.
True Vearn: Can you
succeed at such a task
in the minutes that remain?
Be reasonable, Lon Beruk.
Don't get involved in
this foolish struggle.
If you like, I can summon
you here to Vearn Palace
to watch the
fireworks by my side.
I'll guarantee
your protection,
and you'll get the
best view in the realm.
Lon Beruk: That's
not a view I want.
Not a chance.
Of the several
centuries I've lived,
I was the most
blessed and prosperous
while I served your throne.
And the wealth
wasn't bad, either.
Except... I was the most
bored I've ever been.
I've never experienced
such a sure and
terrible feeling of going
to waste - before or since.
I never want to
live that way again.
Compared to that,
these few weeks I've spent
fighting alongside
Dai and his friends
have been some of the most
fulfilling times of my life.
While it's been brief...
It's true.
These days are filled with
a light, brighter...
than I've ever known.
I'm not the type to make
the same mistake twice.
Instead, I choose to share
the fate of these humans...
who I've grown fond of.
Master!
What insolence.
I'm disappointed in you.
You'll regret calling your
services to me a mistake...
Yes, I'll have to
put an end to you and
that foolish idea
this very instant.
You again...
What do you think
you're doing?
[chuckle]
Did you hear that, Dai?
Now or never.
Sounds like we don't have
time to be this miserable.
Others aren't going down
easy. So neither am I.
If our chances aren't zero,
I'm not quitting.
I've gotta help them!
I'll do it all myself
if that's what it takes.
I'll beat the clock
with my Zoom spell...
and freeze the
rest of the Cores!
Popp, no!
True Vearn: Impetuous fool.
When I dropped
the Pillar of Vearn,
it vaporized the
Magic Circle of Light.
And to shield Vearn Palace
from the coming explosion,
I've used my
Magic Power to raise
the protective
barrier once again...
Which also
happens to leave you
with no way of returning
to the Surface World.
You still have zero
chance of stopping me.
It'll work, but
we need to hurry.
There are five more of
these Cores we need to freeze.
I'll use my Zoom and head
to the Pillar in Ringaia!
I'll go to Northwest Romos.
You can consider it done.
Wait a minute!
If you're heading that
way, take us with you!
That's a good idea.
Drop us off at
Romos Castle on your way...
Gomez and I will see if
there's anybody there...
Just anybody who knows
how to conjure Zoom.
We'll need someone who can
get to Western Papnica,
someone for Valge Island,
and someone for
Southern Orzam.
Now make haste, and search as
hard as you can - understood?
All: All right!
Flora [thought]: I don't
like our odds, though.
We lack the time
and the manpower...
What we need here
is someone who can
instantly get to the
Pillars and cast Crack...
If only I could cast
a Zoom spell...
Then I could save my Papnica!
Tell me, Merle.
With your new power,
is it possible to
reach out to people
around the world and
warn them of the danger?
I fear that's beyond my
abilities, Your Majesty.
I see. Don't be discouraged.
Just being able to
communicate with Popp...
is more than enough
of a miracle.
Merle [thought]:
Popp, talk to me...
What's wrong? How can I help?
There must be
something I can do!
True Vearn: Those
remaining insects
scurrying about
down there...
What can they hope to do?
They only have a
few minutes left...
It's already far too late.
Popp: Are you sure about that?
Yes, Popp.
Popp: [chuckling]
Well, it ain't much
consolation, but at least
the mighty Dark King
finally remembers my name.
How d'you like that?
Guess I made an impression.
[struggling grunt]
Why don't... you loathsome
humans ever give up?!
Come on!
Is there no one in all of Romos
who knows how to use Zoom?
There must be somebody.
We need to get to Orzam
or Papnica right away!
If you can help us,
step forward! Please!
Nova: I-It's no use.
I froze another one,
but I've never been
to Orzam before.
That means I'm going to
have to fly to get there.
And in this condition...
No way! Not now!
Have I really
learned nothing...
from Dai and his friends?!
There are still three
Pillars left to deal with.
How can I... How can
I give up now?!
Nova: I'll... I'll crawl
there if I have to...
Onward, to Orzam!
True Vearn: For the
last time, it's futile.
You can't defeat
the undefeatable.
The sooner you accept that
fact, the easier this will be.
Take a look at Dai.
See for yourself.
Dai, huh? I wonder...
How long do you imagine
his lifespan would be?
He's the child...
of a Dragon Knight
and a human.
So maybe...
Who knows?
Maybe it's the same as
the rest of us humans...
Or maybe... He can live...
a lot longer
than we do...
What on Earth are
you talking about?
Hey, Dark King.
How long are you
supposed to live, anyway?
Thousands of years?
Tens of thousands?
Or do you just
not die at all?
Hearing how you and
that monster Velzar
talked with each other...
I'll bet you guys both
live a pretty long time.
To someone who's seen eons,
the lives of us humans
must seem so brief -
like fireworks in
the night sky.
Popp: As I was listening
to Lon Beruk just now,
I remembered something.
It's this really old memory...
From when I was a kid...
I think I might've been
five or six at the time.
One night, I realized everybody
leaves this world eventually.
It got me thinking,
what happens when we die?
Where do we go?
Why do we have to?
The more I thought about it,
the more it started scaring me.
My mind kept racing.
Then, the waterworks opened up.
My parents rushed in
to see what was wrong.
"Why does everybody
die?!" I said.
"It's not fair. Why can't
we live forever?!"
I couldn't stop crying.
Dad had no idea
what to do with me.
But Mom did. She always
knows what to do...
So she held me close.
Squeezed me super tight.
And then, after I caught my
breath, she told me the truth.
Stein: You're right, Popp.
Everybody dies someday...
Everybody wants life
to go on forever, too.
But the end is what
makes life so precious...
It's why everyone puts all of
their might into living.
So she said.
Compared to a
big shot like you...
living up in the clouds and
playing a game of
chess with the world...
th-the lives... of us humans
must seem like they...
don't last for more
than an instant, right?
Popp: But that's
the whole reason...
even if it doesn't
change a thing,
we will keep struggling!
Because that's
just what we do.
Forget "easy".
We put all of our
might into living...
until the very last breath!
It doesn't matter
whether we've got...
fifty years left or even
just five more minutes...
It might only be
for an instant to you -
but like a bright
flash in the sky...
we'll burn as
brilliant as the sun,
and fight with all
the life we've got.
Popp: That's how
we humans survive.
There's nothing
"futile" about it.
You better get ready
to be proven wrong 'cause
giving up isn't in our blood!
Merle [thought]:
That's it, Popp.
That's the Popp
I know and love.
Stand brave, keep
fighting until the end.
I am with you all the way,
just keep trying.
Dai [thought]: Whenever it's
seemed like a losing battle...
Whenever I've felt
truly hopeless...
Whenever I convince myself
that the only thing
I can do is give up...
Dai: Every time, you're
there, ready to help...
To give me that last push.
Master Avan was right.
It's always been you...
the one holding me up.
Dai: You're the greatest
friend I've got, Popp.
My best friend.
Dai [thought]: I'm so
glad the two of us...
got to know each other.
Let's go.
Both: [roaring]
Narrator: The cry of Popp's soul
has put Dai back on his feet,
and despite their
hopeless situation,
our heroes push their exhausted
bodies past their limit,
rushing the Dark King
with another assault.
Perplexed by their
unyielding spirit
in the face of his checkmate,
Vearn's confidence
begins to waver.
And at that exact moment,
one of the Eye Jewels
begins to glow.
Will an ally break free?
Find out on
the next episode of
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"The Tear of the Gods".